<html>
<head>
<h1>0x0B. SSH</h1>
</head>
<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>SSH is a secure protocol used as the primary means of connecting to Linux servers remotely. It provides a text-based interface by spawning a remote shell. After connecting, all commands you type in your local terminal are sent to the remote server and executed there.</o>
<h3>SSH Overview<h3>
<p>The most common way of connecting to a remote Linux server is through SSH. SSH stands for Secure Shell and provides a safe and secure way of executing commands, making changes, and configuring services remotely. When you connect through SSH, you log in using an account that exists on the remote server</p>
<h4>How SSH Works</h4>
<p>When you connect through SSH, you will be dropped into a shell session, which is a text-based interface where you can interact with your server. For the duration of your SSH session, any commands that you type into your local terminal are sent through an encrypted SSH tunnel and executed on your server.</p>
<p>The SSH connection is implemented using a client-server model. This means that for an SSH connection to be established, the remote machine must be running a piece of software called an SSH daemon. This software listens for connections on a specific network port, authenticates connection requests, and spawns the appropriate environment if the user provides the correct credentials.</p>
<p>The user’s computer must have an SSH client. This is a piece of software that knows how to communicate using the SSH protocol and can be given information about the remote host to connect to, the username to use, and the credentials that should be passed to authenticate. The client can also specify certain details about the connection type they would like to establish</p>
<h4>How SSH Authenticates Users</h4>
<p>Clients generally authenticate either using passwords (less secure and not recommended) or SSH keys, which are very secure.</p>
<p>SSH keys are a matching set of cryptographic keys which can be used for authentication. Each set contains a public and a private key. The public key can be shared freely without concern, while the private key must be vigilantly guarded and never exposed to anyone.</p>
<p>To authenticate using SSH keys, a user must have an SSH key pair on their local computer. On the remote server, the public key must be copied to a file within the user’s home directory at ~/.ssh/authorized_keys. This file contains a list of public keys, one-per-line, that are authorized to log into this account.</p>
<p>When a client connects to the host, wishing to use SSH key authentication, it will inform the server of this intent and will tell the server which public key to use. The server then checks its authorized_keys file for the public key, generates a random string, and encrypts it using the public key. This encrypted message can only be decrypted with the associated private key. The server will send this encrypted message to the client to test whether they actually have the associated private key.</p>
<p>Upon receipt of this message, the client will decrypt it using the private key and combine the random string that is revealed with a previously negotiated session ID. It then generates an MD5 hash of this value and transmits it back to the server. The server already had the original message and the session ID, so it can compare an MD5 hash generated by those values and determine that the client must have the private key.</p>
<h4>Generating and Working with SSH Keys</p>
<h5>Generating an SSH Key Pair</h5>
<p>Generating a new SSH public and private key pair on your local computer is the first step towards authenticating with a remote server without a password. Unless there is a good reason not to, you should always authenticate using SSH keys.</p>
<p>A number of cryptographic algorithms can be used to generate SSH keys, including RSA, DSA, and ECDSA. RSA keys are generally preferred and are the default key type.</p>
<p>To generate an RSA key pair on your local computer, type:</p>
<pre>
```
$ ssh-keygen
$ Generating public/private rsa key pair.
Enter file in which to save the key (/home/demo/.ssh/id_rsa):
```
</pre>
<p>This prompt allows you to choose the location to store your RSA private key. Press ENTER to leave this as the default, which will store them in the .ssh hidden directory in your user’s home directory. Leaving the default location selected will allow your SSH client to find the keys automatically.</p>
<pre>
```
Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):
Enter same passphrase again:
```
</pre>
<p>The next prompt allows you to enter a passphrase of an arbitrary length to secure your private key. By default, you will have to enter any passphrase you set here every time you use the private key, as an additional security measure. Feel free to press ENTER to leave this blank if you do not want a passphrase. Keep in mind though that this will allow anyone who gains control of your private key to login to your servers.</p>
<p>If you choose to enter a passphrase, nothing will be displayed as you type. This is a security precaution.</p>
<pre>
```
Output
Your identification has been saved in /root/.ssh/id_rsa.
Your public key has been saved in /root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub.
The key fingerprint is:
8c:e9:7c:fa:bf:c4:e5:9c:c9:b8:60:1f:fe:1c:d3:8a root@here
The key's randomart image is:
+--[ RSA 2048]----+
|                 |
|                 |
|                 |
|       +         |
|      o S   .    |
|     o   . * +   |
|      o + = O .  |
|       + = = +   |
|      ....Eo+    |
+-----------------+
```
</pre>
<p>This procedure has generated an RSA SSH key pair, located in the .ssh hidden directory within your user’s home directory. These files are:
<ul>
<l1>~/.ssh/id_rsa: The private key. DO NOT SHARE THIS FILE!</li>
<li>~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub: The associated public key. This can be shared freely without consequence.</li>
</ul>
</html>